we're taking it down to the wire on
today's beads baubles and jewels jewelry
expert Judy Hendricks is here today with
us and we're going to talk about memory
wire now you have brought with you a
gorgeous bracelet that we're gonna
reproduce and Judy I know like me many
people who start taking up making
jewelry and beading memory wires the
first material that they work with
correct that's correct it's because it's
so easy to work with yes I think it's
just it just automatically goes and does
its own things yeah that's really fun it
kind of gives you enough encouragement
to do it well the first time so you keep
moving on to more difficult I don't need
needles and all those things that you
have to learn to thread it's just okay
it comes in different sizes mm-hmm
necklace bracelet and rings and it you
can see it's very tightly coiled so when
we start working with it we kind of like
to stretch it out a little bit because
it's easier to work with it and make it
a little more yeah right flexible and so
forth so I kind of stretch it a little
bit and then I'm just gonna clip it
you're gonna decide how many coils you
want they comes in twelve coils okay and
the size that you want right I'm on the
bracelet we use six coils okay and again
I'm gonna stretch it just a little bit
so that I can work with it a little bit
okay and I've laid my design out on the
board already so that we know what we
want it to look like as we go around and
again it's so it's simple because you're
just repeating the pattern over and over
again and you're doing it up your wrist
until you decide how long you really
want it so you already have your bead
design right out for you right okay but
before we do that we want to do
something so that they all don't go
flying off the end so you'll see how
strong this memory wire is just by how
we curled the end you're going to
actually take your pliers okay and you
bend it towards you a little bit and it
twists see how strong yes and we're just
gonna twist just a little bit and that's
good to know so that you put all this
work into the bracelet it's not
something that's gonna break so easily
so it is nice and little time okay and
really all I'm doing is keeping the hook
on there until it doesn't fly off
because we're gonna put a pretty little
dangle on the end of it we're gonna fix
that and make it pretty okay
and then of course you're gonna start
with your pattern and you're just gonna
start stringing your beads on and you
don't need a needle in this one of
course because it's already strong which
is cool so we just start stringing until
you get as many on that you want and
when you're finished doing getting it as
wide as you want you and you can even
cut this in the middle if you decide
that oh I I would started with six or
seven and it's way bigger when the beads
gotta Teeter delicate you would just go
ahead and cut it okay yeah and then
again when you got them all on and you
pull them up nice and tight you would
put your little to your little loop
again on the other end and with that
little loop what we're gonna do is put a
little head pin on the end of it with a
little dangle we're gonna look nice if
you wanted to look they have a nice
little finished look right the head pins
come in all different sizes and colors
at but you'll see on these they have
real pretty hands on them I know II have
gold too yes we do can you're not just
limited to silver right and I love
mixing silver and gold - I do that a lot
what we're going to do now is it called
a gallery wrap and it's a very finished
look I put put my beads on in my head on
to my head pin and it's very simple
you're gonna simply start with a 90
degree angle okay you make your pliers
do the work on this one I'm going to
move them so that I have something to go
around okay and you would do it closer
to the end because we want it little but
I was so that you can see it I'm going
to bend it around and now you see my
bead is in the way right so I'm gonna
move this out and move my plier up there
now I'm simply going to start twisting
this wire around
that's what secures that I need and
right next to each other so it makes it
nice nice finished edge like this you
would clip the excess wire off I mean
that decorative and yes it does and it
looks it does it has a very professional
look yeah and there's a boat dangle to
it too great so in that's it do you
believe that that's how simple a
bracelet is to make look at the final
product and you can see it looks great
you just have as many loops as you want
the beads are all there right and don't
you think it's very elegant elegant very
and it was very simple right but yet you
can have something that looks very
polished which is great and I
a lot of people with memory where they
don't think that no so now you have some
coordinating pieces to go along with us
which are just amazing let's start with
that beautiful necklace I just I because
I thought the colors were so rich in the
bracelet I decided to do this one very
elegant so I made a very heavy bead now
you understand that the memory wire is
kind of tight but if it's heavy it's
gonna bring that down and knot which is
good because that's always my concern I
think with using it for a necklace
because you think it's gonna just choke
you right and it won't if we were gonna
work the band that's a good tip to use
maybe a heavier vite talked about the
center how did you do that one is that a
little different it is because we had
this one the bracelet laid out where we
went from the end out because we're
starting in the middle I actually just
took tape after I got might be in the
center my life should be didn't tape the
other end made my pattern uh-huh and
then I did a mirror image on the other
side so once I was hit satisfied with it
you don't want to try to string from
both ends because you would get lost in
right if you didn't like it it wouldn't
you would have to do it over again right
so that's a good tip yeah and then you
have the beautiful ring yeah just a
little ring just to make it look just a
complete set right to justice and it
wasn't very difficult at all right and
look at that gorgeous turquoise necklace
now the turquoise one is a little bit
different and the reason I showed it to
you is because most people think in
memory where you have to keep the coils
going around and round
you really don't if you'll see that is
that's why the clasp is showing we've
used the turquoise and the spacer bars
there but we've clipped the memory wire
and added a separate wire you separate
strands and it but what it does is it
keeps its shape mm-hmm which is really
nice that's what the memory does is
because you would think of that was a
different right exactly and what about
the bracelet the bracelets I think are
just fun I wanted you to see them
because that's usually what people start
with huh
the very first one believe it or not was
a necklace that I found in a garage sale
that I just cut apart and they're very
heavy so you can't use nothing out of
every yeah
and you can't use them all the time on
threads because it is too heavy they're
glass and we're on the memory wire you
can because the memory wire is very
strong right and the one in the center
hit I broke into two separate pieces
uh-huh because that's a button so I'm
how you did
wire around the button tell me about the
last two bracelets those are the most
traditional mm-hmm they they are what
most people start with and it has
buttons and charms and all kinds of fun
things on it and the little one at the
bottom it's just a single strand that
that even a child could do and they love
wearing them it's just it's just a fun
thing right in terms of so popular they
really are they really are thank you so
much Judy for showing us all the things
we can do with memory wire your and
Katie has more tips for using memory
wire in today's beading lesson